BLOCK 2 — Amazon Bedrock Awareness
Priority: Good to Know ⭐

What is Amazon Bedrock?
Amazon Bedrock is a fully managed service that gives access to foundation models — large pre-trained AI models — from various providers through a single AWS API. No need to build or train models from scratch.
Think of it as — AWS marketplace for AI models. You pick a model, send it text, get intelligent response back.

Foundation Models available on Bedrock:
Anthropic Claude — conversational AI, reasoning, analysis. Most popular on Bedrock.
Amazon Titan — AWS's own models for text, embeddings, images.
Meta Llama — open source models from Meta.
Mistral — efficient European AI models.
Stability AI — image generation models.

Key Bedrock concepts:
Inference — sending input to a model and getting output back. You send a prompt, model returns a response.
Prompt engineering — designing the input text carefully to get better outputs from the model. How you ask the question matters.
Token — unit of text the model processes. Roughly 4 characters or 0.75 words. Models have token limits and cost is based on tokens used.
Embeddings — converting text into numbers (vectors) that capture meaning. Similar texts have similar vectors. Used for semantic search.
RAG — Retrieval Augmented Generation — instead of relying only on model's training data, fetch relevant documents first, include them in prompt, model answers based on those documents. More accurate and up to date answers.

Basic Bedrock API call in Python:
pythonimport boto3
import json

bedrock = boto3.client('bedrock-runtime', region_name='us-east-1')

# Call Claude model
response = bedrock.invoke_model(
    modelId='anthropic.claude-3-sonnet-20240229-v1:0',
    body=json.dumps({
        "anthropic_version": "bedrock-2023-05-31",
        "max_tokens": 1000,
        "messages": [
            {
                "role": "user",
                "content": "Summarize this insurance policy document: ..."
            }
        ]
    })
)

result = json.loads(response['body'].read())
print(result['content'][0]['text'])

RAG — Retrieval Augmented Generation:
Most important Bedrock concept for Data Engineers!
Problem — AI model only knows what it was trained on. Doesn't know your company's internal documents or recent data.
Solution — RAG:
User asks question
    ↓
Search your documents for relevant content (retrieval)
    ↓
Include retrieved content in prompt sent to model
    ↓
Model answers based on your actual documents
    ↓
More accurate, grounded response
How it works technically:

Store documents as embeddings in vector database
When question comes — convert question to embedding
Find similar document embeddings — these are relevant documents
Send relevant documents + question to model
Model generates answer based on your documents

Bedrock Knowledge Bases — AWS managed RAG service. You give it your S3 documents, it handles embeddings, vector storage and retrieval automatically.

Bedrock Agents:
Agents can take actions — not just answer questions. They can call APIs, run queries, trigger workflows.
Example — instead of just answering "what is the loss for policy P001" — an agent can:

Understand the question
Query Redshift for the data
Format and return the answer

This is where Lambda comes in — Lambda functions are the tools that agents use to take actions.
User question
    ↓
Bedrock Agent reasons about what to do
    ↓
Calls Lambda function (tool) to fetch data
    ↓
Lambda queries Redshift or S3
    ↓
Returns data to agent
    ↓
Agent formats and returns answer to user

How this connects to your Data Engineering work:
Your Glue pipelines and Redshift data becomes the foundation for AI applications:
Preparing data for RAG — cleaning and structuring documents in S3 so Bedrock Knowledge Bases can index them. This is pure Data Engineering work — your ETL skills apply directly!
Feature pipelines for ML — your existing feature engineering work feeds ML models. Same concept applies to preparing data for AI models.
Lambda as agent tools — your knowledge of Lambda, Step Functions and Redshift makes you valuable for building agent backends.

What to say if Bedrock questions come up in interview:
"I have been exploring Amazon Bedrock and understand the core concepts — foundation models, RAG for grounding AI responses in enterprise data, and Bedrock Agents for autonomous workflows. My strong foundation in AWS data services — Glue, Redshift, S3, Lambda — positions me well to build the data layer that powers Bedrock applications. Preparing and curating data for RAG pipelines is essentially ETL work which is my core strength. I am actively upskilling on the Gen AI layer and excited to apply my data engineering foundation in this space."
